the word which came to Jeremiah from the
Lord arise and go down to the potter's
house and there I will cause you to hear
my words then I went down to the
potter's house and there he was making
something at the wheel and the vessel
that he made of clay was marred in the
hand of the Potter so he made it again
into another vessel as it seemed good to
the Potter to make then the word of the
Lord came to me saying o house of Israel
can I not do with you as this Potter
says the Lord look as the clay is in the
Potters hand so are you in my hand o
house of Israel the instant I speak
concerning a nation and concerning a
kingdom to pluck up to pull down and to
destroy it if that nation against whom I
have spoken turns from its evil I will
relent of the disaster that I thought to
bring upon it and the instant I speak
concerning a nation and concerning a
kingdom to build and to plant it if it
does evil in my sight so that it does
not obey my voice
then I will relent concerning the good
with which I said I would benefit it now
therefore speak to the men of Judah and
to the inhabitants of Jerusalem thus
says the Lord behold I am fashioning a
disaster and devising a plan against you
return now every one from his evil way
and make your ways and your doings good
and they said that is hopeless so we
will walk according to our own plans and
we will everyone obey the dictates of
his evil heart therefore thus says the
Lord ask now among the Gentiles who has
heard such things the Virgin of Israel
has done a very horrible thing will a
man leave the snow water of Lebanon
which comes from the rock of the field
will the cold flowing waters be forsaken
for strange waters because my people
have forgotten me they have burned
incense to worthless idols and they have
caused themselves to stumble in their
ways from the ancient paths to walk in
pathways and not on a highway to make
their land desolate and a perpetual
hissing everyone who passes by it will
be astonished and shake his head I will
scatter them as with an east wind before
the enemy I will show them the back and
not the face in the day of their
calamity
then they said count and let us devise
plans against Jeremiah for the law shall
not perish from the priests nor counsel
from the wise nor the word from the
prophet come and let us attack him with
the tongue and let us not give heed to
any of his words give heed to me O Lord
and listen to the voice of those who
contend with me shall evil be repaid for
good for they have dug a pit for my life
remember that I stood before you to
speak good for them to turn away your
wrath from them
therefore deliver up their children to
the famine and pour out their blood by
the force of the sword let their wives
become widows and bereaved of their
children let their men be put to death
there
young men be slain by the sword in
battle let a cry be heard from their
houses when you bring a troop suddenly
upon them for they have dug a pit to
take me and hidden snares for my feet
yet lord you know all their counsel
which is against me to slay me provide
no atonement for their iniquity nor blot
out their sin from your sight
but let them be overthrown before you
deal thus with them in the time of your
anger